# Sluggable posts for Nesta CMS

This plugin allows you to create [Nesta](http://nestacms.com) articles with an numeric filename (probably based on date and serial) but serve the page with an SEO-friendly slug, like so [http://wynnnetherland.com/linked/2011092203/making-blogazine-with-nesta](http://wynnnetherland.com/linked/2011092203/making-blogazine-with-nesta). The slug is optional. As long as the numeric filename path is included, Nesta will redirect to add the current slug.

Sluggable posts provide a few of benefits:

* You can change the slug if your headline changes and Nesta will automatically find the new article.
* You don't have to know your headline and slug when you create your file.
* Mangled, truncated URLs can still find the way to the latest version of your page.

### Installation

To install add the plugin to your Nesta Gemfile

    gem "nesta-plugin-sluggable"

### Setting the slug

Slugs can be set in the page [metadata](http://nestacms.com/docs/creating-content/metadata-reference):

    date: 2011-09-24
    slug: this-is-my-first-sluggable-post

    # This is the headline

Alternatively, if not set, Sluggable will dasherize the heading to create the slug.

### Considerations

In order to avoid a `301` redirect for all sluggable page links on your site, use the `permalink` method in your templates instead of `abspath`.

### TODO

* Nesta CLI option to create posts

## Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Wynn Netherland. See LICENSE for details.